---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

MyPaint started back in 2004 when Martin Renold bought himself a Wacom 
tablet for the purpose to test it on [GIMP](http://gimp.org). He notice 
that GIMP would sometimes drop a stroke when scribbling too fast. Plus 
he thought he could paint more freely if the brush could react in a 
different ways to pressure and velocity.

After a few prototypes, and applying what he learned in his engineering 
studies, his simple XInput program slowly turned into a brush editor 
with simple digital canvas. When version 0.4 was released in 2006, he 
though he was done since it did everything he wanted to do, but users 
started to appear and began to use it. Some of them requested features 
that he also wanted and thus it's development continued. Over the 
years, several people have contributed small and large to the codebase 
of MyPaint, or have just been enthusiastic and spread the word about it 
throughout the Internet.

Fast-Forward to today, MyPaint has become an easy-to-use painting 
program which works well with Wacom graphics tablets and other similar 
devices. Its highly configurable brush engine not only emulates 
traditional media such as charcoal and ink, but also allows you to 
experiment to create non-realistic brushes to fit with your artist 
tastes. MyPaint's UI is design to be our of your way and allow you to 
focus, but also give you the tools you need to create your Artwork.

MyPaint is used by many artists, including the the notable Digital 
Illustrator and Concept Artist, [David Revoy](http://davidrevoy.com) 
and others on [Deviantart](http://mypaint.deviantart.com/) and 
[Tumbler](http://made-with-mypaint.tumblr.com/). It is also 
cross-platform allowing not only Linux users, but also Mac OS X and 
Windows users to draw to their hearts content.

[Download MyPaint Today!](/downloads)

